#  Interest in participating in the selected project (MLOps for distributed land sector modelling)

Climate change has been detrimental to various periodic cycles which have played important roles in the survival of societies. The sector I wish to explore is Agriculture wherein untimely weather changes have not only resulted in financial loss for farmers but also affected the crop yield. India is primarily an agrarian society and agriculture is the largest source of livelihood [[1]](https://www.fao.org/india/fao-in-india/india-at-a-glance/en/#:~:text=Agriculture%2C%20with%20its%20allied%20sectors,farmers%20being%20small%20and%20marginal.). Himachal Pradesh, the state I grew up in, too depends on agricultural yields as its main source of income. Furthermore, HP also completely lies in one of the four biodiversity hotspots of India - the Himalayas. <br/>
In recent times, Himachal Pradesh witnessed a loss in the agriculture sector due to untimely rain and snow. These aberrations are a direct consequence of climate change and are becoming extremely frequent. Normal snowfall at the right time is beneficial to winter crops. It helps in root development, preventing soil from getting washed away and other benefits. Lack of sufficient rainfall during the winter months in HP has caused significant loss in the crops sown in winter. The snowfall rate has decreased not only in Himachal Pradesh but across the Himalayan region in the past several decades [[2]](https://india.mongabay.com/2021/04/winter-drought-in-himachal-impacts-agriculture-and-drinking-water-supply/). Experts point out that temperature over the Himalayas warming due to climate change has led to a significant melting and decline in glacier mass over the Himalayan region in the recent decades. This could lead to severe drinking water shortage. Moreover, extremities in weather such as the change from seasonal rain and snow to flash storms and untimely snow has also meant the growth of pests in crops [[3]](https://india.mongabay.com/2018/12/climate-change-impacts-agriculture-in-the-northern-himalayas/#:~:text=Climate%20change%20and%20agriculture%20in%20the%20Himalayas&text=The%20change%20from%20seasonal%20rain,big%20sentinel%20of%20climate%20change.). <br/>
Owing to such consequences in a region that has important biodiversity and has always been self-sufficient, I want to research this field and innovate intelligent systems to gain better understanding of changes climate patterns. Contributing to this project and moja global will will provide me with a great platform to gain experience in the field of AI and its use in climate change. 
